---
layout: post
title:  "Will Goes to India"
date:   2015-09-29
categories: 
---

Before I get into today's class project, I want to begin with what is going on outside the realm of school. Well, really this all feels connected. Life isn't stopping while I take 12 weeks to learn UI Design. It just keeps going and the hard parts are just another thing that you have to overcome and learn from. Will had the opportunity to go to India with [The Miracle Foundation](http://www.miraclefoundation.org/) and teach children at an orphanage robotics skills by building and programming Lego Robots. He's changing lives by giving them insight into careers they wouldn't otherwise have access to and I have no doubt that his life will forever be changed by seeing the world through a different lense. 

So he's doing fantastic things. I can barely keep it together while I write this because I'm so freaking proud of what he's doing and how much of himself he gives to other people to make this world a better place to be in. He's an inspiration to me and I'm so honored that he loves me.

His role in going back to school hasn't been small either. He's encouraged me from day one to aspire to be the best version of myself. I remember being on our first date and thinking about how cool I wished I could sound. Then realizing how cool he already thought I was. He liked me just as I am (not remorseful for the Bridget Jones reference). 

I would go more in depth but that last paragraph was done holding back a waterfall of tears so I may not be ready to write about the entire love story of Will and Liz. At least not on the day that he's leaving. I want to get across that his support is a major reason that I was okay with not working for at least 3 months while I attend The Iron Yard and learn something totally new. So, going through a portion without him here may be harder. 

I don't get to vent my frustrations as much or have someone to tell me I'm being ridiculously hard on myself. Because I am absolutely hard on myself. I am chagrined I am not to the level of making a professional looking website project after project. But if someone told me that after studying UI Design for 5 weeks I would probably laugh in their face. Oh, you aren't a professional designer after 5 weeks? You don't have all your shit figured out? You ridiculous person...you, sir/madame, are being too hard on yourself. 

Moving on to today's class project. We split into pairs and created a paper prototype for the [Spirit Airlines website](https://www.spirit.com/). I've never used this site or airline before so it was pretty cool having fresh eyes on it. They use a lot of casual tone in the content. As in, when you sign in the screen then shows "Hey, Elizabeth" close to the top right corner. The loading pop-up says "loading something awesome..." What a _great_ interaction to have for an awesomely long time before the next screen loads. There is also yellow...everywhere.

The task was to pick one interaction and to test it out. We focused on the "continue" button when booking a flight which takes you to a page to book a hotel. You have to scroll to the bottom and click another "continue" button to go to car rentals. You again have to scrool to the bottom and "continue" to book the flight. You can't continue at this point without registering on the site or logging in. Then, you get to fill in your information and complete your purchase. You also pay for every little add on that you can think of for this flight. As in, you have to pay just to print your boarding pass at the airport. The added fees doesn't really affect our paper prototype. But just food for thought. I think there's a lot more to the company than what they choose to present to customers during their initial interactions on the site.

Back to the task. We created buttons that users could choose to bypass the hotel page and car page and added a button to book the hotel and car rental on the next page (instead of doing both separately) because we hypothesized it would get most users where they want to go faster/in less clicks. We also made a login option pop up at the beginning so they are already logged in once they make their flight selection. Doing the test was fun to watch because both users got hung up on the second page where they select the flight option. We had made it too confusing and they didn't know what to do on the next page to select their flight. I think the next action would have been clearer if we indicated that the flights were preselected and they just confirm that those were good but also the option to switch to another flight. To summarize, I think we had good ideas but clarity is everything when giving the user a task. This project felt pretty valuable in getting an idea of how to set up user tests.


