---
layout: post
title:  "Hackathon"
date:   2015-09-28
categories: 
---

I'm done with the hackathon and I'm happy I got through it with no scars! We got our groups and requirements on Thursday. My team consisted of a Backend Developer, Ryan, and two Frontend Developers, Mike and Mory. I went out to lunch with my team and we decided to do a web application that reserves a parking spot at a restaurant so you don't have to drive around looking for parking. A lot of time and gas is spent driving around looking for parking so a solution in the future would be for spots to be reserved before they arrive at their destination. This is also a problem that smart cars are looking to resolve, but I like the idea of a person interacting with an app to decide where they are going and picking a spot for themselves.

I spent Thursday doing sketches of the site and finding inspiration sites. During our Wednesday pep talk from our Clearhead mentors, they harped on starting somewhere so that you can fail quickly and keep going. I wanted to quickly come up with the ideas with the assumption that the final product would be totally different anyways. I just needed direction...any direction to move forward. Looking at the inspiration sites helped me out a bit because it gave me an idea of what has been done before. The mentors also talk about not reinventing the wheel so studying what works does help. You want to be able to build something suitable for the user that is familiar and they already have an idea of how to use the site because of previous experience with similar sites.

Friday, I worked on style tiles and mockups. I wasn't in love with any particular style tile that I did, but I did like aspects of each one. This seems to be common so I just need to work through creating a style tile that I love as a whole (not just parts work). The feedback that I got was almost all in favor of using a style tile with a real throwback feel. The mockups were so time consuming because I worked on them with Illustrator. It took me a while to create something using tools that I've just learned in the past week. I used Illustrator to familiar myself with the tool and it will be great to spend more time with it. I also want to recreate designs with Illustrator so that I improve my skills.

The weekend was spent coding the website and it felt like a pretty smooth process considering this is the first time I've built a website as a team. We got all the issues with merging our branches to github out of the way early. I also got more experience with using the command line. It was the first time I used gulp, homebrew, and node so I had to install them through the command line. 

Every day felt like I was in a time suck where every time I looked up from work two hours had passed. I learned a lot this weekend by collaborating on a team with a backend developer and two frontend developers. We all acted as the expert in our field and completing the project required us to communicate what we could do and how our piece of the project would interact with theirs. The point was also to demonstrate a more real world scenario. As a UI Designer, I won't be working in a bubble and I'll be working with developers in a workplace.