#In The Thick of It

It's the end of week 4 at The Iron Yard and feeling like I'm way in the thick of it. It's hard to believe that it's been 4 weeks and that the hackathon is next weekend. What? Where did all the time go? I've been so caught up in the program that I haven't had a lot of reflection on myself and on what's next until recently. The blog posts help to collect my thoughts and I'm sure I'll look back and wonder how insane I sound in this moment.

I talk about grids and columns in my sleep. I stare at the same picture I've seen before the start of the course and pick out the color palette. I spend so much time putting together my own colors. And changing it again. And again. I inspect elements on webpages all the time just to see how it was done. My perspective on the world has shifted and it has made the world of design that much more interesting.

This week has been awesome for inspiration as well. We started getting feedback on our work from Web Designers at Clearhead and it was great to hear the perspective of my mentor. Getting her feedback made me feel validated by the things that were done well on my website and gave me a chance to think about the perspective of the user to take the website to the next level. I look forward to getting feedback as I finish more projects and getting to pick my mentor's brain.

I went to my first Dribbble meetup with some fellow students and my instructor and had a great time meeting designers and developers from around Austin. Networking has honestly been what I anticipated being one of the most nerve wracking parts of getting involve in the tech community in Austin and this meetup made me feel at ease about putting myself out there in the future. I felt energized and inspired after the meetup and created my favorite style tile to date. It's not the style tile that will end up being used for my design, but I love the concept so much that I may use it on a different project or create a personal project for my portfolio when the time comes.

And that brings me to something that I haven't had much time to stop and think about which is what my goals are after I graduate from The Iron Yard. My ideal scenario was to have a job or interviews for a job set up by Demo Day. How to get to that point seems like it is dependent on how well I pull together my portfolio and can add the right personal brand for myself. What do I want companies to see when they see my work? What kind of person am I at my core and is that what I present to the rest of the world? These questions have been swirling around this week as I prepare for the coming weeks when we actually will work on our portfolios. At this point, I'm happy creating beautiful work...if not works in progress...so that I've got something to be proud of at the end of the 12 weeks.

So I'm in the thick of it. I'm in it to win it. It's been a whirlwind of a week, but it's also made me feel so alive!