# Discovering Typography 

Starting with typography ideas this week has been challenging. My process so far has been to look at restaurant websites that I like and think about the reasons that the design works. Many times it has something to do with the typography. Then, I look through fonts to test out with my content. This seems to have been the most time consuming part of the process.


I've used some typekit and some Google Fonts. For my website, the ones I've found the easiest to design are sans-serif fonts. I think they look clean and would fit well with the direction I envision for the redesigned website. I think some of the fonts manage to look fresh while not being generic.


I struggled figuring out the line-spacing, weights, font sizes, and appropriate layout for the menu page I created. Adjusting how many characters fit on each line took a while. I could spend the rest of the class analyzing this since it varies so much from project to project. There is obviously still a lot to learn, and my main takeaway so far would be that typography takes time to work through. So far, I feel like I have gotten the hang of identifying good examples of typography. It's been a lot of work to discover typography, but I daresay it's been fun and the journey is totally worth it. I feel my mindset shifting and I take note of the typography on the websites I frequent. It feels kind of silly that I didn't actively notice typography as much before. This has definitely helped me to start thinking more like a designer and how to incorporate typography into the design of a website.